# File Handling
- Permanently for the future purpose
- tpes of files:-
    - text files :- **to store text data like names of students, marks of students**
    - binary files :- **To store images, video, audio files**

## How to open a file?
1. Python has a built-in function **open()** to open a file. This function returns a file object, also called a handle, as it is used to read or modify the file accordingly.
2.              f = open("test.txt")    # open file in current directory
                f = open("C:/Python33/README.txt")  # specifying full path
3. We can **specify the mode while opening a file**. In mode, we specify whether we want to read 'r', write 'w' or append 'a' to the file. 
4. Syntax:-
    -           open(file, mode='r', buffering=-1, encoding=None, errors=None, newline=None, closefd=True, opener=None)
    - If the **file cannot be opened, an OSError is raised**.
5. where:-
    - **file** is a path-like object giving the pathname (absolute or relative to the current working directory) of the file to be opened or an integer file descriptor of the file to be wrapped.
    - **mode** is an optional string that specifies the mode in which the file is opened. It **defaults to 'r'** which means open for reading in text mode.
    - **buffering** is an optional integer used to set the buffering policy. Pass 0 to switch buffering off (only allowed in binary mode), 1 to select line buffering (only usable in text mode), and an integer > 1 to indicate the size in bytes of a fixed-size chunk buffer. When no buffering argument is given, the default buffering policy works as follows:
        - Binary files are buffered in fixed-size chunks; the size of the buffer is chosen using a heuristic trying to determine the underlying device’s “block size” and falling back on io.DEFAULT_BUFFER_SIZE. On many systems, the buffer will typically be 4096 or 8192 bytes long.
        - “Interactive” text files (files for which isatty() returns True) use line buffering. Other text files use the policy described above for binary files
    - **encoding** is the name of the encoding used to decode or encode the file. This should **only be used in text mode**
        - the default encoding is platform dependent. In windows, it is 'cp1252' but 'utf-8' in Linux.
    - **errors** is an optional string that specifies how encoding and decoding errors are to be handled—this c**annot be used in binary mode**. 
    - **newline** controls how universal newlines mode works (**it only applies to text mode**). It **can be None, '', '\n', '\r', and '\r\n'**.
    - **closefd** -> If closefd is False and a file descriptor rather than a filename was given, the underlying file descriptor will be kept open when the file is closed. If a filename is given closefd must be True (the default) otherwise an error will be raised
6.              f = open("test.txt")      # equivalent to 'r' or 'rt'
                f = open("test.txt",'w')  # write in text mode
                f = open("img.bmp",'r+b') # read and write in binary mode 
7. when working with files in text mode, it is highly recommended to specify the encoding type. since code will behave differently in different platforms as the default encoding is different for different OS.
    -           f = open("test.txt",mode = 'r',encoding = 'utf-8')     

| **Mode** |	**Description** |                                                                           
| ------- | ------------------- |                                                                   
| 'r' |	Open a file for reading. (default) if it does not exist gives FILENOTFOUND error |
| 'w' |	Open a file for writing. Creates a new file if it does not exist or truncates the file if it exists. |
| 'x' |	Open a file for exclusive creation. If the file already exists, the operation fails raising 'fileexisterror'. Compulsary file should not be present.|
| 'a' |	Open for appending at the end of the file without truncating it. Creates a new file if it does not exist. |
| 't' |	Open in text mode. (default) |
| 'b' |	Open in binary mode. |
| '+' |	Open a file for updating (reading and writing) |
| 'U' |	universal newlines mode (deprecated) |


## How to close a file?
1. It is rcommended to close a file when it is not required.
2. Closing a file will free up the resources that were tied with the file and is done using 
3. fileRef.close()
4.          f = open("test.txt",encoding = 'utf-8')
            # perform file operations
            f.close() 
5. This method is not entirely safe. If an exception occurs when we are performing some operation with the file, the code exits without closing the file.
6. A safer way is to use a try...finally block.
    -       try:
                f = open("test.txt",encoding = 'utf-8')
            # perform file operations
            finally:
                f.close() 
7. The **best way to do this is using the with statement**. This **ensures that the file is closed when the block inside with is exited.**
    - **don't need to explicitly call the close() method. It is done internally.**
    -       with open("test.txt",encoding = 'utf-8') as f:
                # perform file operations  

## File Object Properties

| **Property** | **Description** |                                                                                                      
| ------------ | --------------- |                          
| f.name | To get thr name of the file |
| f.closed | to know wheather the file is closed or not |
| f.mode | to know in which mode the file is opened |
| f.readable () | return boolean value wheather it is possible to perform read operation or not |
| f.writable() | return boolean value wheather it is possible to perform write operation or not |

## How to write to File 